# Disease Designer
> Designing Diseases and simulating their success using SEIR interactions
#### Video Demo:  https://youtu.be/9Au_svfxnRM
#### Description: My project that was submitted for the final part of the CS50x course was based on a flask framework, integrating SQL and Matplot to produce an SEIR disease designer. The diseases that we humans interact with daily have the power to destroy us but our bodies have built up defences against these diseases. We can model the interactions and progress of a disease in a population by using this. We consider a Susceptible-Exposed-Infectious-Removed (SEIR) model to describe the spread of the virus and compute the number of infected and dead individuals. The SEIR model has many versions, and mathematical treatments can be found, for instance, in Hethcote, Keeling and Rohani, and Diekmann et al., among others. The goal is to compute the number of infected, recovered, and dead individuals based on the number of contacts, probability of disease transmission, incubation period, recovery rate, and fatality rate. The epidemic disease model predicts a peak of infected and dead individuals per day as a function of time and assumes that births and natural deaths are balanced since we are dealing with a very short time. The population members solely decrease due to the disease as dictated by the fatality rate of the disease. The most abundant species in nature are viruses; they are parasites since they cannot replicate themselves. Upon replication, some viruses cause serious infectious diseases in humans and/or animals and are medically, socially, and economically important. One of these species is the coronavirus. An outbreak of pneumonia caused by a novel coronavirus (COVID-19) began (officially) on February 24, 2020, in Northern Italy, and the number of newly reported cases is still increasing. Approximately 29,000 casualties are reported in Italy at the time of writing (May 5). The danger COVID-19 poses is reflected in the high number of cases of transmission to healthcare workers, more than 20% in Italy. The experience in China showed that the use of relative extreme isolation measures in conjunction with rapid diagnosis has a strong impact on the dynamics of the epidemic, hence the importance of understanding and quantifying the process to verify the effectiveness of the isolation measures [e.g., (3)]. There is a long history of mathematical models in epidemiology, going back to the eighteenth century. Bernoulli used a mathematical method to evaluate the effectiveness of the techniques of variolation against smallpox, to influence public health policy. Most of the models are compartmental models, with the population divided into classes and with assumptions being made about the rate of transfer from one class to another. The program allows the user to change the parameters of the disease and generate an SEIR report to see what effects the disease that the user created had. This is a fun and interesting way to learn about the disease and how it can affect a population on a small, digestible scale.